ANKH
by David Van Brink, published by Datamost 1984

64 Rooms: An Adventure in the MetaReal World

I am Ankh.  The ultimate puzzle.  I am under your control.  I obey all 
commands.  Do with me what you will.  Travel through my MetaReal World 
and you will unlock many secrets.  Many reflections of reflections.  But 
be warned--my puzzles are not easy.  Many months may pass before you 
solve all my puzzles and reach the last room.  To be successful, you 
will have to stretch your powers to the limit.  Remember--there are 64 
rooms...and only one solution.

To move OtherUp -I
Left -J
Down -K
Right -L
To stop Otherspace bar

To FireUp -E
Left -S
Down -D
Right -F

To Touch orUp -Ctrl E
take ObjectLeft -Ctrl S
Down -Ctrl D
Right - Ctrl F

To Set Object Down press number key 1,2,3, or 4
To Rest press <ESC>

Press V to control volume

Choose.  The path to enlightenment takes many directions.  Discoveries 
can be made by simply experimenting with various possibilities.  The 
MetaReal World lies with the East Wind.

Take control of your Other
Open the first door to begin the journey
The object is to solve puzzles, open doors and travel through all
64 rooms

The puzzles may be solved by a combination of logic, destruction, and 
the scientific method.

Watch your Karma!  Karma is the green or white line to the right of the 
Ankh Field.  Your Other loses Karma by rubbing walls or objects.  Your 
Other gaines Karma by entering new rooms and touching or shooting 
objects.

The rooms are divided into like-behaviour.  Be aware of the background.

Listen to sounds!  When your Other touches or shoots an object, and you 
hear a sound, you have triggered an action in another room.

You may pick up as many as four objects, storing them in the boxes at 
the top right-hand corner of the game screen.  These may come in handy 
later in other rooms.  To set an object down, press the appropriate 
number key.

Any objects picked up will be set down in the same direction and at the 
same distance.  Many objects may be carried to any room.

X’s - Objects to shoot (bad)
triangles - Objects to get (good)
squares - Objects to use (functional)

Score = Rooms + Objects + Bonus

The triangles are a key to solving the final mystery.

Amen-Ra leaves you with one clue:

Sound on pitch creates ideas and emotion
Sequence your hearing to cross Ankh’s ocean

HINTS

A short guided tour through the MetaReal world of Ankh

1.  Insert Ankh into your computer’s drive and turn on your computer.
2.  When the ‘choose’ screen appears, press the <Return> key.
3.  The title screen will appear, followed by other assorted MetaReal 
information.  Feel free to experiment with this information for a few 
minutes.
4.  Press the space bar to enter the MetaReal World of Ankh.
5.  You are now in the first room.  The object in the center of the room 
is your surrogate ‘Other’, which you will guide through all 64 rooms.
6.  To open the first door (thereby solving the first puzzle), move your 
Other down so it is in line with the small rectangle just above the 
door.  Fire to the right and shoot the rectangle.  The door opens!
7.  Move your Other down to the second room.  Since X’s are ‘bad’ and 
are the things to shoot, move around the room and fire at the X.  When 
you hit it, the X will explode and you will receive extra karma (the 
line to the right of the Ankh playing field.
8.  Move down to the third room, where you will see two X’s.  As in room 
two, move around the room and fire at the Xs.  You may also choose to 
avoid the Xs altogether by moving quickly down to the 4th room.  The Xs 
will rob you of karma if they touch you, so try to keep moving.  If you 
should run out of karma and die, press the space bar to start over.
9.  Room four gives you a choice of two paths.  For this tutorial choose 
the path which leads to the right.
10.  After you enter the new room, shoot the Xs.  When finished, 
continue moving right into the next room.
11.  Notice the background in this new room.  Now move right into the 
adjoining room.  Notice the background is similar.  The rooms are 
divided into like-behavior, so these two rooms are solved together to 
open the door on the right, leading to more rooms.
12.  Move your Other to the right, then up into the top right-hand 
corner until you are in line with the small rectangle in the lower 
right-hand corner.
13.  Shoot down at the rectangle.  The door opens.
14.  Move left until you are directly below the small rectangle near the 
center of the path.
15.  Touch the rectangle.  Notice the sound.  This means you have 
activated a trigger in another room.
16.  Move left into the adjoining room and you will see a door open (the 
result of touching the rectangle).
17.  Move left until you are below the top left-hand rectangle and 
inline with the rectangle on the right side of the room.
18.  Shoot the right rectangle, then quickly move up into the top left-
hand corner before the door closes on you.
19.  Move right until you are directly below the rectangle near the 
center of the path.
20.  Touch the rectangle.  As before, you will hear a sound, meaning you 
have activated a trigger in another room.
21.  Move right into the adjoining room, then continue moving right 
until you are above the lower right-hand rectangle and in line with the 
rectangle on the left side of the room.
22.  Shoot the rectangle on the left, then quickly move down into the 
lower right-hand corner before the door closes on you.
23.  Move left until you are directly above the rectangle near the 
center of the path.
24.  Shoot down at the rectangle.
25.  Move left into the adjoining room until you are below the top left-
hand door and in line with the rectangle on the right side of the 
screen.
26.  Shoot the rectangle on the right to open the top left-hand door, 
then move down into the lower left-hand corner, keeping in line with the 
top left-hand rectangle.
27.  Shoot up into the top left-hand rectangle.
28.  After the door opens, move right until you are directly below the 
rectangle near the center of the path.
29.  Shoot up into the rectangle.
30.  Move right into the adjoining room and voila!--the door to the 
right opens.  Now you are free to explore more rooms in the MetaReal 
World.  The puzzles are all different, but work in much the same manner 
as the puzzles you have solved so far.  Remember, the puzzles are solved 
through a combination of logic, destruction and the scientific method.
31.  Good luck.  May Amen-Ra guide your way.





