ANKH
by David Van Brink, published by Datamost 1984

64 Rooms: An Adventure in the MetaReal World

I am Ankh.  The ultimate puzzle.  I am under your control.  I obey all 
commands.  Do with me what you will.  Travel through my MetaReal World 
and you will unlock many secrets.  Many reflections of reflections.  But 
be warned--my puzzles are not easy.  Many months may pass before you 
solve all my puzzles and reach the last room.  To be successful, you 
will have to stretch your powers to the limit.  Remember--there are 64 
rooms...and only one solution.

To move Other	Up -		I	
			Left -	J		
			Down -	K	
			Right -	L
To stop Other	space bar

To Fire		Up -		E
			Left -	S
			Down -	D
			Right -	F

To Touch or		Up -		Ctrl E
take Object		Left -	Ctrl S
			Down -	Ctrl D
			Right - 	Ctrl F

To Set Object Down press number key 1,2,3, or 4
To Rest press <ESC>

Press V to control volume

Choose.  The path to enlightenment takes many directions.  Discoveries 
can be made by simply experimenting with various possibilities.  The 
MetaReal World lies with the East Wind.

	Take control of your Other
	Open the first door to begin the journey
	The object is to solve puzzles, open doors and travel through all
		64 rooms

The puzzles may be solved by a combination of logic, destruction, and 
the scientific method.

Watch your Karma!  Karma is the green or white line to the right of the 
Ankh Field.  Your Other loses Karma by rubbing walls or objects.  Your 
Other gaines Karma by entering new rooms and touching or shooting 
objects.

The rooms are divided into like-behaviour.  Be aware of the background.

Listen to sounds!  When your Other touches or shoots an object, and you 
hear a sound, you have triggered an action in another room.

You may pick up as many as four objects, storing them in the boxes at 
the top right-hand corner of the game screen.  These may come in handy 
later in other rooms.  To set an object down, press the appropriate 
number key.

Any objects picked up will be set down in the same direction and at the 
same distance.  Many objects may be carried to any room.

Xís - Objects to shoot (bad)
triangles - Objects to get (good)
squares - Objects to use (functional)

Score = Rooms + Objects + Bonus

The triangles are a key to solving the final mystery.

Amen-Ra leaves you with one clue:

	Sound on pitch creates ideas and emotion
	Sequence your hearing to cross Ankhís ocean
